[MUSIC]
>> Speaker 1: So the process is like this.
A user signs up to access
protected resources on our API.
So that means they give us a username and
a password.
They sign up.
On success, we create a new
user in our database, right?
So it's like cool,
that user name is great, it's not taken.
The password matches our validations,
whether that's like a min length, or
a max length, or
whatever the validation was, if any.
Great, we create a new user name
in our database, you're good.
So typically what you would
do there is you'd like,
all right, now in a sophisticated system
you'd probably say, and I'm going to make
a new session and sign them and sign
a cookie, send that back to the browser.
But, now what we're gonna do is we're
gonna grab that new user's ID that we just
saved in a database and we're gonna create
a JSON web token, just like we did up top.
We didn't send that JSON web token back
to the user on the response of sign up.
So, when they sign up, they should
expect to get back a token string.
It's like, here's your token.
You signed up successfully, here you go.
And then what the client's responsibility
is is to save it somewhere that will
persist so they can use it for
every request.
So they have to save it somewhere.
And every time they make a request to the
server, for like some protected resource,
they have to attach that token
to the authorization header or
the query string or wherever our
server says it needs to attach it.
In this case it's
the authorization header.
It's up to you when you build out your
backend, but I think the spec is,
put it on the authorization pattern.
And they have to do that on every single
request when they want something.
Just like a cookie is sent on every single
request from the browser by default.
You just have to send this too.
And most sophisticated client
frameworks allow you to automatically
do things like that so you don't
have to do it every time as well.
I know Angular does, it's like,
you write interceptors,
like every time I make a request to
the endpoint, attach this to the header.
It'll do it for you.
>> Speaker 1: So not only did we
get authentication with that we
also get identification, right?
Because the jwt has ID, so
you get two things out of that.
And if we had a roll based auth flow,
we could also get authorization
from that as well.
Maybe not only would we attach IDs on
here, but we would attach the users
rolls on this object too, that way we can
get authorization on what they can and
can not do on different access levels.
>> Speaker 1: So with JWT as a method.
We will use to grant access
to our protected resources.
We still need a way to, excuse me, sorry.
My eye is really bothering me.
>> Speaker 1: We still need a way to
actually create users other than a simple
POST request to the server.
So, right now the way that we create
servers, if you go look at our endpoints,
just do a POST request to the user's
resource with their username and
you create a user.
It's not that safe, right?
That's not what we really wanna do.
So we need a better way of doing that.
So the way we'll do that is
with a user name and password.
>> Speaker 1: So we all ready have
a user name field that is unique.
Let's add a required password
field as well to help identify
who a user may be when they sign in.
So there are numerous problems around
storing original plain text passwords
in our database,
if you haven't experienced databases.
There are legal, technical, and
moral problems around storing people's
passwords in your database in plain site.
You're just asking for it if you do it.
Just saying.
If you store somebody's password as
is in plain text on the database,
you're asking for it.
So instead, we will store a hashed
version of a user's password.
Note that sending plain text passwords
over HTTP is not safe either,
and you should be using HTTPS instead.
We will not be using HTTPS.
So, just get over that for now.
If you're again,
a security person, I don't wanna send
this password over HTTP, it's okay.
My wife's gonna hack us today.
>> Speaker 2: I'm intercepting.
>> Speaker 1: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: Couple questions.
If you use JWT,
do you have to make sure you're in a
browser that supports client side storage?
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, you'd probably,
I mean if you wanted to persist yeah.
I mean you could theoretically
just save it in cache.
Right and then if you refreshed the
browser then you'd just have to sign in
again but yeah if you wanted to persist
if you want a good user experience where
the user doesn't have to sign in every
single time they come back, then yeah,
you need storage.
But if you don't have storage,
then the worst case scenario is that
every time your app loads up or
loses state, the user has to sign back in.
So that's worst case scenario.
But yep, you definitely need that, so.
And most browsers do,
I mean definitely the major browsers
support that down to like older versions.
And of course mobile devices
support that as well.
>> Speaker 2: And then they're asking
you're gonna hash and salt passwords?
>> Speaker 1: So, we're gonna talk
about salting, but yeah, we are.
>> Speaker 1: So, unlike the encryption
of a JWT we can't undo the hash of
a password.
We can't say, okay
here is the hash give me back
the password, like we can with a JWT.
With a JWT, we're using encryption and
we're using this shaw and
this is like if I give you
back the token with the same secret I
expect the object that I encrypted before.
Whereas a hash doesn't really work
that way, it's a one way thing.
It's like I'm just gonna create a hash and
that's it.
And the only way to check if something
equals a hash is to hash it again and
see if the hash values match,
not the actual passwords.
So we can't undo the password.
This is why hashing is perfect for
passwords.
So in order to check to see if the given
password matches a safe hash password
like on sign in which is
exactly what sign in is.
Sign in is like, first let me
see if there's a username in our
database with this,
great there's a username.
Now let me grab that user's
hash password in my database,
let me grab the password he just sent me.
Let me hash this password and
compare it to the safe hash password.
If it matches then they
are who they say they are.
Let me sign them in.
That is what sign in is.
So again, using the same hashing
function in the password,
we will get the same hash
as we did on sign up.
There are further methods we could
use to prevent attacks on our API and
our database like
creating unique salts for
each user and storing the salt on
the user to help prevent rainbow text.
So, we're not gonna be
creating unique salt so
we'll just generate the same salt for now.
But yeah, you could and in fact you
probably should, creating unique salts and
storing them with the user themselves.
So a hacker would just have to
work a little harder to getsalt.
But ultimately you can't stop anybody from
doing anything, it's just gonna happen.
You can just make it harder.